# Coordinate Rings

??? definition "Definition 1.20"
    ## Coordinate ring
    Let $X \subseteq K^n$ be an affine variety
    $I = \I(X) \ideal K[\underline x]$

    $$K[X]:= K[\underline x]/I$$

    is called the coordinate ring on $X$, or the ring of regular functions on $X$.


??? remark "Remark 1.21"
    === "a)"
        Given any $f + I \in K[X]$, the evaluation homomorphism

        $$X \to K, \underline \xi \mapsto f(\underline \xi)$$

        is well-defined.

    === "b)"
        Given an ideal $J \ideal K[\underline x], X = \V(J)$, then in general, we have that

        $$K[X] \neq K[\underline x]/J$$


??? lemma "Lemma 1.22"
    ## Ideals in quotient rings

    Let $I \ideal R$

    Then, there exists an inclusion preserving bijection between

    $$\begin{align*}
        A &:= \{J \ideal R | I \subseteq J \} \\
        B &:= \{\overline J \ideal R/I\}
    \end{align*}$$

    given by
    
    $$\begin{align*}
        \Phi : A & \to B \\
        J & \mapsto J/I \\
        \Phi^{-1} : B & \to A \\
        \overline J & \mapsto \{a \in R | a + I \in \overline J\}
    \end{align*}$$


??? remark
    Let $J \in A$
    === "Preservation of congruence rings"
        $R/J \cong (R/I)/\Phi(J)$ congruence rings are preserved.
    === "Preservation of prime/maximal/radical ideals"
        $J$ is prime/maximal/radical $\iff$ $\Phi(J)$ is prime/maximal/radical


??? theorem "Theorem 1.23"
    ## Correspondence subvarieties–radical ideals

    Let $K=\overline K$ <br>
    and $K \subseteq K^n$ ba en affine variety.

    Then, there exists ai inclusion reversing bijection between

    $$
    \begin{align*}
        A &:= \{J \ideal K[X] | J \text{is radical}\} \\
        G &:= \{Y \subseteq X | Y \text{is a subvariety}\}
    \end{align*}
    $$

    given by

    $$
    \begin{align*}
        \Phi : A & \to G \\
        J \mapsto \V_X(J) := \{x \in X | f(x) \ \forall\ f \in J\} \\
        \Phi^{-1} : G & \to A \\
        Y & \mapsto \I(Y)/\I(X)
    \end{align*}
    $$
    
    ??? proof
        [C.1.19](../4nullstellensatz_2/#idealvariety-correspondence) + [L.1.22](#ídeals-in-quotient-rings)


??? definition "Definition 1.24"
    === "Nilpotent"
        The element $a \in R$ is called nilpotent if

        $$\exists\ k \in \N \text{ s.t. } a^k=0$$

    === "Nilradical"
        $$\nil(R) := \{a \in R | a \text{ is nilpotent}\} = \sqrt{\{0\}}$$

    === "Reduced"
        A ring $R$ is called reduced if

        $$\nil(R) = \{0\}$$


??? remark
    === "a)"
        $R$ is an integral domain $\implies R$ is reduced.
    === "b)"
        $I\ideal R$

        $$I \text{ is radical } \iff R/I \text{ is reduced}$$

    === "c)"
        $R/\nil R$ is reduced.

## Coordinate rings and reduced algebras

??? theorem "Theorem 1.25 a)"
    Let $X \subseteq K^n$ be an affine variety

    $$\implies K[X] \text{ is a reduced affine algebra over } K$$

    ??? proof
        $I=\I(X)$ is a radical ideal.

        $$\implies K[\underline x]/I \text{ is reduced, generated by } x_i + I \tab \square$$


???+ theorem "Theorem 1.25 b)"
    Let
    
    - $K=\overline K$
    - $A$ be a reduced affine algebra

    $$
    \begin{align*}
        \implies & \exists\ X \subseteq K^n \text{ an affine variety s.t.} \\
        & A \cong K[X]
    \end{align*}
    $$

    ??? proof
        $A = K[\underline a], a \in A^n$

        Let $\phi_a : K[\underline x] \to A$ be the canonical evaluation epimorphism at $\underline x = \underline a$.

        $I := \Ker \phi_a$ which is reduced

        $$
        \begin{align*}
            \implies & A \cong K[\underline x]/I \\
            \implies & \sqrt I = I
        \end{align*}
        $$

        Let $X:= \V(I)$

        $$
        \begin{align*}
            \implieshref{../4nullstellensatz_2/#hilberts-nullstellensatz}{T.1.17} & I = \I(X) \\
            \implies & A \cong K[X] & \square
        \end{align*}
        $$


??? remark
    === "a)"
        $X$ is not uniquely determined.
    === "b)"
        With an appropriate isomorphism, $X$ is unique up to isomorphism.